AUTHENTICATED
U.S. GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION
GPO
§ 5318A
TITLE 31-MONEY AND FINANCE
IMPROVEMENT OF IDENTIFICATION OF MONEY
LAUNDERING SCHEMES
Pub. L. 103-325, title IV, § 404, Sept. 23, 1994, 108 Stat.
2246, provided that:
"(a) ENHANCED TRAINING, EXAMINATIONS, AND REFER-
RALS BY BANKING AGENCIES.-Before the end of the 6-
month period beginning on the date of enactment of
this Act [Sept. 23, 1994], each appropriate Federal bank-
ing agency shall, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury and other appropriate law enforcement
agencies-
"(1) review and enhance training and examination
procedures to improve the identification of money
laundering schemes involving depository institu-
tions; and
"(2) review and enhance procedures for referring
cases to any appropriate law enforcement agency.
"(b) IMPROVED REPORTING OF CRIMINAL SCHEMES BY
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.-The Secretary of the
Treasury and each appropriate law enforcement agency
shall provide, on a regular basis, information regarding
money laundering schemes and activities involving de-
pository institutions to each appropriate Federal bank-
ing agency in order to enhance each agency's ability to
examine for and identify money laundering activity.
"(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.-The Financial Institu-
tions Examination Council shall submit a report on the
progress made in carrying out subsection (a) and the
usefulness of information received pursuant to sub-
section (b) to the Congress by the end of the 1-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
"(d) DEFINITION.-For purposes of this section, the
term 'appropriate Federal banking agency' has the
same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit In-
surance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813].”
§ 5318A. Special measures for jurisdictions, finan-
cial institutions, international transactions,
or types of accounts of primary money laun-
dering concern
(a) INTERNATIONAL
DERING REQUIREMENTS.—
COUNTER-MONEY LAUN-
(1) IN GENERAL.-The Secretary of the Treas-
ury may require domestic financial institu-
tions and domestic financial agencies to take
1 or more of the special measures described in
subsection (b) if the Secretary finds that rea-
sonable grounds exist for concluding that a ju-
risdiction outside of the United States, 1 or
more financial institutions operating outside
of the United States, 1 or more classes of
transactions within, or involving, a jurisdic-
tion outside of the United States, or 1 or more
types of accounts is of primary money laun-
dering concern, in accordance with subsection
(c).
(2) FORM OF REQUIREMENT.-The special
measures described in-
(A) subsection (b) may be imposed in such
sequence or combination as the Secretary
shall determine;
(B) paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection
(b) may be imposed by regulation, order, or
otherwise as permitted by law; and
(C) subsection (b)(5) may be imposed only
by regulation.
(3) DURATION OF ORDERS; RULEMAKING.—Any
order by which a special measure described in
paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (b) is
imposed (other than an order described in sec-
tion 5326)
(A) shall be issued together with a notice
of proposed rulemaking relating to the im-
position of such special measure; and
Page 450
(B) may not remain in effect for more than
120 days, except pursuant to a rule promul-
gated on or before the end of the 120-day pe-
riod beginning on the date of issuance of
such order.
(4) PROCESS FOR SELECTING SPECIAL MEAS-
URES. In selecting which special measure or
measures to take under this subsection, the
Secretary of the Treasury—
(A) shall consult with the Chairman of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, any other appropriate Federal
banking agency (as defined in section 3 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) 1 the Sec-
retary of State, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission, the National Credit Union
Administration Board, and in the sole dis-
cretion of the Secretary, such other agencies
and interested parties as the Secretary may
find to be appropriate; and
(B) shall consider-
(i) whether similar action has been or is
being taken by other nations or multilat-
eral groups;
(ii) whether the imposition of any par-
ticular special measure would create a sig-
nificant competitive disadvantage, includ-
ing any undue cost or burden associated
with compliance, for financial institutions
organized or licensed in the United States;
(iii) the extent to which the action or
the timing of the action would have a sig-
nificant adverse systemic impact on the
international payment, clearance, and set-
tlement system, or on legitimate business
activities involving the particular jurisdic-
tion, institution, class of transactions, or
type of account; and
(iv) the effect of the action on United
States national security and foreign pol-
icy.
(5) NO LIMITATION ON OTHER AUTHORITY.-This
section shall not be construed as superseding
or otherwise restricting any other authority
granted to the Secretary, or to any other
agency, by this subchapter or otherwise.
(b) SPECIAL MEASURES.-The special measures
referred to in subsection (a), with respect to a
jurisdiction outside of the United States, finan-
cial institution operating outside of the United
States, class of transaction within, or involving,
a jurisdiction outside of the United States, or 1
or more types of accounts are as follows:
(1) RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING OF CER-
TAIN FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.-The Secretary of the
Treasury may require any domestic finan-
cial institution or domestic financial agency
to maintain records, file reports, or both,
concerning the aggregate amount of trans-
actions, or concerning each transaction,
with respect to a jurisdiction outside of the
United States, 1 or more financial institu-
tions operating outside of the United States,
1 or more classes of transactions within, or
involving, a jurisdiction outside of the
United States, or 1 or more types of ac-
1 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma.Page 451
TITLE 31-MONEY AND FINANCE
counts if the Secretary finds any such juris-
diction, institution, class of transactions, or
type of account to be of primary money
laundering concern.
(B) FORM OF RECORDS AND REPORTS.-Such
records and reports shall be made and re-
tained at such time, in such manner, and for
such period of time, as the Secretary shall
determine, and shall include such informa-
tion as the Secretary may determine, in-
cluding―
(i) the identity and address of the par-
ticipants in a transaction or relationship,
including the identity of the originator of
any funds transfer;
(ii) the legal capacity in which a partici-
pant in any transaction is acting;
(iii) the identity of the beneficial owner
of the funds involved in any transaction,
in accordance with such procedures as the
Secretary determines to be reasonable and
practicable to obtain and retain the infor-
mation; and
(iv) a description of any transaction.
(2) INFORMATION RELATING ΤΟ BENEFICIAL
OWNERSHIP. In addition to any other require-
ment under any other provision of law, the
Secretary may require any domestic financial
institution or domestic financial agency to
take such steps as the Secretary may deter-
mine to be reasonable and practicable to ob-
tain and retain information concerning the
beneficial ownership of any account opened or
maintained in the United States by a foreign
person (other than a foreign entity whose
shares are subject to public reporting require-
ments or are listed and traded on a regulated
exchange or trading market), or a representa-
tive of such a foreign person, that involves a
jurisdiction outside of the United States, 1 or
more financial institutions operating outside
of the United States, 1 or more classes of
transactions within, or involving, a jurisdic-
tion outside of the United States, or 1 or more
types of accounts if the Secretary finds any
such jurisdiction, institution, or transaction
or type of account to be of primary money
laundering concern.
(3) INFORMATION RELATING TO CERTAIN PAY-
ABLE-THROUGH ACCOUNTS.-If the Secretary
finds a jurisdiction outside of the United
States, 1 or more financial institutions oper-
ating outside of the United States, or 1 or
more classes of transactions within, or involv-
ing, a jurisdiction outside of the United States
to be of primary money laundering concern,
the Secretary may require any domestic finan-
cial institution or domestic financial agency
that opens or maintains a payable-through ac-
count in the United States for a foreign finan-
cial institution involving any such jurisdic-
tion or any such financial institution oper-
ating outside of the United States, or a pay-
able through account through which any such
transaction may be conducted, as a condition
of opening or maintaining such account—
(A) to identify each customer (and rep-
resentative of such customer) of such finan-
cial institution who is permitted to use, or
whose transactions are routed through, such
payable-through account; and
§ 5318A
(B) to obtain, with respect to each such
customer (and each such representative), in-
formation that is substantially comparable
to that which the depository institution ob-
tains in the ordinary course of business with
respect to its customers residing in the
United States.
(4) INFORMATION RELATING TO CERTAIN COR-
RESPONDENT ACCOUNTS.-If the Secretary finds
a jurisdiction outside of the United States, 1
or more financial institutions operating out-
side of the United States, or 1 or more classes
of transactions within, or involving, a juris-
diction outside of the United States to be of
primary money laundering concern, the Sec-
retary may require any domestic financial in-
stitution or domestic financial agency that
opens or maintains a correspondent account in
the United States for a foreign financial insti-
tution involving any such jurisdiction or any
such financial institution operating outside of
the United States, or a correspondent account
through which any such transaction may be
conducted, as a condition of opening or main-
taining such account-
(A) to identify each customer (and rep-
resentative of such customer) of any such fi-
nancial institution who is permitted to use,
or whose transactions are routed through,
such correspondent account; and
(B) to obtain, with respect to each such
customer (and each such representative), in-
formation that is substantially comparable
to that which the depository institution ob-
tains in the ordinary course of business with
respect to its customers residing in the
United States.
(5) PROHIBITIONS OR CONDITIONS ON OPENING
OR MAINTAINING CERTAIN CORRESPONDENT OR
PAYABLE-THROUGH ACCOUNTS.-If the Secretary
finds a jurisdiction outside of the United
States, 1 or more financial institutions oper-
ating outside of the United States, or 1 or
more classes of transactions within, or involv-
ing, a jurisdiction outside of the United States
to be of primary money laundering concern,
the Secretary, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of State, the Attorney General, and the
Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, may prohibit, or im-
pose conditions upon, the opening or main-
taining in the United States of a cor-
respondent account or payable-through ac-
count by any domestic financial institution or
domestic financial agency for or on behalf of a
foreign banking institution, if such
respondent account. or payable-through ac-
count involves any such jurisdiction or insti-
tution, or if any such transaction may be con-
ducted through such correspondent account or
payable-through account.
cor-
(c) CONSULTATIONS AND INFORMATION TO BE
CONSIDERED IN FINDING JURISDICTIONS, INSTITU-
TIONS, TYPES OF ACCOUNTS, OR TRANSACTIONS TO
BE OF PRIMARY MONEY LAUNDERING CONCERN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In making a finding that
reasonable grounds exist for concluding that a
jurisdiction outside of the United States, 1 or
more financial institutions operating outside
of the United States, 1 or more classes of§ 5318A
TITLE 31 -MONEY AND FINANCE
transactions within, or involving, a jurisdic-
tion outside of the United States, or 1 or more
types of accounts is of primary money laun-
dering concern so as to authorize the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to take 1 or more of the
special measures described in subsection (b),
the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary
of State and the Attorney General.
(2) ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS.-In making
a finding described in paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall consider in addition such informa-
tion as the Secretary determines to be rel-
evant, including the following potentially rel-
evant factors:
(A) JURISDICTIONAL FACTORS.-In the case
of a particular jurisdiction-
(i) evidence that organized criminal
groups, international terrorists, or entities.
involved in the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction or missiles have trans-
acted business in that jurisdiction;
(ii) the extent to which that jurisdiction
or financial institutions operating in that
jurisdiction offer bank secrecy or special
regulatory advantages to nonresidents or
nondomiciliaries of that jurisdiction;
(iii) the substance and quality of admin-
istration of the bank supervisory and
counter-money laundering laws of that ju-
risdiction;
(iv) the relationship between the volume
of financial transactions occurring in that
jurisdiction and the size of the economy of
the jurisdiction;
(v) the extent to which that jurisdiction
is characterized as an offshore banking or
secrecy haven by credible international or-
ganizations or multilateral expert groups;
(vi) whether the United States has a mu-
tual legal assistance treaty with that ju-
risdiction, and the experience of United
States law enforcement officials and regu-
latory officials in obtaining information
about transactions originating in or rout-
ed through or to such jurisdiction; and
(vii) the extent to which that jurisdic-
tion is characterized by high levels of offi-
cial or institutional corruption.
(B) INSTITUTIONAL FACTORS.-In the case of
a decision to apply 1 or more of the special
measures described in subsection (b) only to
a financial institution or institutions, or to
a transaction or class of transactions, or to
a type of account, or to all 3, within or in-
volving a particular jurisdiction―
(i) the extent to which such financial in-
stitutions, transactions, or types of ac-
counts are used to facilitate or promote
money laundering in or through the juris-
diction, including any money laundering
activity by organized criminal groups,
international terrorists, or entities in-
volved in the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction or missiles:
(ii) the extent to which such institu-
tions, transactions, or types of accounts
are used for legitimate business purposes
in the jurisdiction; and
(iii) the extent to which such action is
sufficient to ensure, with respect to trans-
actions involving the jurisdiction and in-
Page 452
stitutions operating in the jurisdiction,
that the purposes of this subchapter con-
tinue to be fulfilled, and to guard against
international money laundering and other
financial crimes.
(d) NOTIFICATION OF SPECIAL MEASURES IN-
VOKED BY THE SECRETARY.-Not later than 10
days after the date of any action taken by the
Secretary of the Treasury under subsection
(a)(1), the Secretary shall notify, in writing, the
Committee on Financial Services of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate of
any such action.
(e) DEFINITIONS.-Notwithstanding any other
provision of this subchapter, for purposes of this
section and subsections (i) and (j) of section 5318,
the following definitions shall apply:
(1) BANK DEFINITIONS.-The following defini-
tions shall apply with respect to a bank:
(A) ACCOUNT.-The term "account".
(i) means a formal banking or business
relationship established to provide regular
services, dealings, and other financial
transactions; and
(ii) includes a demand deposit, savings
deposit, or other transaction or asset ac-
count and a credit account or other exten-
sion of credit.
(B) CORRESPONDENT ACCOUNT.-The term
"correspondent account" means an account
established to receive deposits from, make
payments on behalf of a foreign financial in-
stitution, or handle other financial trans-
actions related to such institution.
(C) PAYABLE-THROUGH ACCOUNT.-The term
"payable-through account” means an ас-
count, including a transaction account (as
defined in section 19(b)(1)(C) of the Federal
Reserve Act), opened at a depository institu-
tion by a foreign financial institution by
means of which the foreign financial institu-
tion permits its customers to engage, either
directly or through a subaccount, in banking
activities usual in connection with the busi-
ness of banking in the United States.
(2) DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTITUTIONS
OTHER THAN BANKS.-With respect to any fi-
nancial institution other than a bank, the Sec-
retary shall, after consultation with the ap-
propriate Federal functional regulators (as de-
fined in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act), define by regulation the term “account",
and shall include within the meaning of that
term, to the extent, if any, that the Secretary
deems appropriate, arrangements similar to
payable-through and correspondent accounts.
(3) REGULATORY DEFINITION OF BENEFICIAL
OWNERSHIP. The Secretary shall promulgate
regulations defining beneficial ownership of an
account for purposes of this section and sub-
sections (i) and (j) of section 5318. Such regula-
tions shall address issues related to an individ-
ual's authority to fund, direct, or manage the
account (including, without limitation, the
power to direct payments into or out of the ac-
count), and an individual's material interest
in the income or corpus of the account, and
shall ensure that the identification of individ-
uals under this section or subsection (i) or (j)Page 453
TITLE 31-MONEY AND FINANCE
of section 5318 does not extend to any indi-
vidual whose beneficial interest in the income
or corpus of the account is immaterial.
(4) OTHER TERMS.-The Secretary may, by
regulation, further define the terms in para-
graphs (1), (2), and (3), and define other terms
for the purposes of this section, as the Sec-
retary deems appropriate.
(f) CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.-In any judicial
review of a finding of the existence of a primary
money laundering concern, or of the require-
ment for 1 or more special measures with re-
spect to a primary money laundering concern,
made under this section, if the designation or
imposition, or both, were based on classified in-
formation (as defined in section 1(a) of the Clas-
sified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C.
App.), 2 such information may be submitted by
the Secretary to the reviewing court ex parte
and in camera. This subsection does not confer
or imply any right to judicial review of any find-
ing made or any requirement imposed under this
section.
(Added Pub. L. 107-56, title III, §311(a), Oct. 26,
2001, 115 Stat. 298; amended Pub. L. 108–177, title
III, §376, Dec. 13, 2003, 117 Stat. 2630; Pub. L.
108-458, title VI, § 6203(e), (f), Dec. 17, 2004, 118
Stat. 3747; Pub. L. 109–293, title V, §501, Sept. 30,
2006, 120 Stat. 1350.)
Editorial Notes
REFERENCES IN TEXT
Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, re-
ferred to in subsec. (a)(4)(A), is classified to section 1813
of Title 12, Banks and Banking.
Section 19(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Reserve Act, re-
ferred to in subsec. (e)(1)(C), is classified to section
461(b)(1)(C) of Title 12, Banks and Banking.
Section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, referred
to in subsec. (e)(2), is classified to section 6809 of Title
15, Commerce and Trade.
Section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures
Act, referred to in subsec. (f), is section 1(a) of Pub. L.
96-456, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 18,
Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
AMENDMENTS
2006 Subsec. (c)(2)(A)(i). Pub. L. 109-293, § 501(1), sub-
stituted "or entities involved in the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction or missiles" for "or
both,".
Subsec. (c)(2)(B)(i). Pub. L. 109–293, § 501(2), inserted
", including any money laundering activity by orga-
nized criminal groups, international terrorists, or enti-
ties involved in the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction or missiles" before semicolon at end.
2004 Pub. L. 108-458, § 6203(e), amended section catch-
line generally. Prior to amendment, catchline read as
follows: "Special measures for jurisdictions, financial
institutions, or international transactions of primary
money laundering concern".
Subsec. (a)(4)(A). Pub. L. 108-458, § 6203(f)(1), sub-
stituted "(as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act)" for ", as defined in section 3 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act,".
Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(iii). Pub. L. 108-458, §6203(f)(2), sub-
stituted "class of transactions, or type of account" for
"or class of transactions".
Subsec. (b)(1)(A). Pub. L. 108-458, § 6203(f)(3), sub-
stituted "class of transactions, or type of account to
be" for "or class of transactions to be".
2 So in original. A second closing parenthesis probably should
precede the comma.
§ 5319
Subsec. (e)(3). Pub. L. 108-458, § 6203(f)(4), inserted "or
subsection (i) or (j) of section 5318” after “identifica-
tion of individuals under this section".
2003 Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108-177 added subsec. (f).
Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2004 AMENDMENT
Amendment by Pub. L. 108-458 effective as if included
in Pub. L. 107-56, as of the date of enactment of such
Act, and no amendment made by Pub. L. 107-56 that is
inconsistent with such amendment to be deemed to
have taken effect, see section 6205 of Pub. L. 108-458, set
out as a note under section 1828 of Title 12, Banks and
Banking.
DETERMINATION WITH RESPECT TO PRIMARY MONEY
LAUNDERING CONCERN OF RUSSIAN ILLICIT FINANCE
Pub. L. 116-283, div. H, title XCVII, § 9714(a), Jan. 1,
2021, 134 Stat. 4838, provided that:
"(a) DETERMINATION.-If the Secretary of the Treas-
ury determines that reasonable grounds exist for con-
cluding that one or more financial institutions oper-
ating outside of the United States, or 1 or more classes.
of transactions within, or involving, a jurisdiction out-
side of the United States, or 1 or more types of ac-
counts within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of
the United States is of primary money laundering con-
cern in connection with Russian illicit finance, the
Secretary of the Treasury may, by order, regulation, or
otherwise as permitted by law-
"(1) require domestic financial institutions and do-
mestic financial agencies to take 1 or more of the
special measures described in section 5318A(b) of title
31, United States Code; or
"(2) prohibit, or impose conditions upon, certain
transmittals of funds (to be defined by the Secretary)
by any domestic financial institution or domestic fi-
nancial agency, if such transmittal of funds involves
any such institution, class of transaction, or type of
account."
"FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR" INCLUDES
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
For purposes of Pub. L. 107-56 and any amendment by
Pub. L. 107-56, the term "Federal functional regulator"
includes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
see section 321(c) of Pub. L. 107-56, set out as a note
under section 5318 of this title.
§ 5319. Availability of reports
The Secretary of the Treasury shall make in-
formation in a report filed under this subchapter
available to an agency, including any State fi-
nancial institutions supervisory agency, United
States intelligence agency or self-regulatory or-
ganization registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission or the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission, upon request of the
head of the agency or organization. The report
shall be available for a purpose that is con-
sistent with this subchapter. The Secretary may
only require reports on the use of such informa-
tion by any State financial institutions super-
visory agency for other than supervisory pur-
poses or by United States intelligence agencies.
However, a report and records of reports are ex-
empt from search and disclosure under section
552 of title 5, and may not be disclosed under any
State, local, tribal, or territorial "freedom of in-
formation”, “open government”, or similar law.
(Pub. L. 97-258, Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 999; Pub.
L. 102-550, title XV, § 1506, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat.
4055; Pub. L. 107-56, title III, § 358(c), Oct. 26, 2001,
115 Stat. 326; Pub. L. 112-74, div. C, title I, § 119,